1. What is Emmet?

Emmet is a web development toolkit that enhances the workflow of web developers and designers by providing abbreviations and shortcuts for writing HTML and CSS code. Originally a plugin for text editors like Sublime Text, Emmet has gained widespread adoption and is now supported in various code editors and integrated development environments (IDEs).

The key feature of Emmet is its ability to allow developers to write code faster using abbreviations that expand into full HTML or CSS code snippets. For example, instead of typing out the full HTML structure manually, you can use Emmet abbreviations like html:5 and then expand it to generate the basic HTML5 template.

Here are a few examples of Emmet abbreviations:

html:5 expands to the HTML5 template.
ul>li*3 expands to an unordered list with three list items.
div#container>div.item*3 expands to a div with the id "container" containing three divs with the class "item."
Emmet supports not only HTML but also CSS abbreviations for quickly generating styles. This tool significantly speeds up the coding process and improves productivity for web developers working on HTML and CSS. Many popular code editors, such as Visual Studio Code, Atom, and Sublime Text, have built-in support for Emmet, making it easy for developers to integrate into their workflow.



2. Difference between a Library and Framework?

The terms "library" and "framework" refer to different concepts in software development, and understanding their distinctions can help developers choose the right tools for their projects. Here are the key differences between a library and a framework:

Control Flow:

Library: A library is a collection of pre-written code or functions that you can use in your program. It typically provides specific functionality, and you, as the developer, retain control over the flow of your program. You call the library when you need its functionality.
Framework: A framework, on the other hand, defines the overall structure of your application. It often provides a skeleton where you fill in the details. In a framework, the control flow is inverted: the framework calls your code, and you fill in the blanks.
Inversion of Control:

Library: You have control over your application and decide when and where to call a library.
Framework: The framework is in control. It provides the "skeleton" with predefined hooks that you fill in with your code.
Usage:

Library: You use a library by calling its functions or methods. Libraries are generally more independent and can be used in different projects without enforcing a specific structure.
Framework: You build your application within the structure defined by the framework. Frameworks are more opinionated and may require you to follow certain conventions.
Flexibility vs. Opinionation:

Library: Libraries are often more flexible, allowing you to pick and choose the components you want to use in your project.
Framework: Frameworks are more opinionated, meaning they come with a set of conventions and best practices that you're expected to follow.
Examples:

Library: jQuery (JavaScript library), requests (Python HTTP library).
Framework: Django (Python web framework), Ruby on Rails (Ruby web framework), Spring (Java framework).
In summary, while both libraries and frameworks are tools that help developers build software more efficiently, the main distinction lies in the degree of control and structure they impose. Libraries offer specific functionalities that you can use at your discretion, while frameworks provide a more comprehensive structure and dictate the flow of your application.



3. What is CDN? Why do we use it?

A CDN, or Content Delivery Network, is a distributed network of servers strategically positioned in various locations around the world. The primary purpose of a CDN is to deliver web content—such as images, stylesheets, scripts, and videos—more efficiently to users based on their geographic location. The key components of a CDN include:

Origin Server:

This is the original server where your website's content is stored.
Edge Servers:

These are the servers distributed across different regions or countries. They store cached copies of your website's static content.
When a user requests content from your website, the CDN helps optimize the delivery in the following ways:

Reduced Latency: The CDN delivers content from a server that is geographically closer to the user. This reduces the time it takes for the content to travel over the internet, resulting in faster load times.

Load Balancing: CDNs distribute the load of delivering content across multiple servers. This helps prevent any single server from becoming overloaded, ensuring consistent performance.

Caching: CDNs cache static content on edge servers. When a user requests a particular piece of content, the CDN first checks if it has a cached copy. If so, it delivers the cached content, reducing the load on the origin server and speeding up delivery.

Distributed Security: CDNs can provide security features such as DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) protection, helping to mitigate and absorb malicious traffic before it reaches the origin server.

Scalability: CDNs enable websites to scale more easily by offloading a significant portion of the content delivery process to distributed servers. This is particularly useful for handling traffic spikes or sudden increases in demand.

In summary, the main reasons for using a CDN are to improve the performance and reliability of content delivery, reduce latency, enhance website security, and achieve better scalability. Many popular websites and applications leverage CDNs to ensure a faster and more responsive user experience for their global audience.



4. Why is React known as React?

React, the JavaScript library for building user interfaces, is known as "React" because of its fundamental concept of reactive programming. The name "React" reflects the library's core philosophy, which revolves around the idea of building user interfaces that react dynamically to changes in data. The reactive programming paradigm involves updating the user interface in response to changes in application state or data, and React was designed to simplify and optimize this process.

Key aspects of React that align with its name:

Declarative Syntax:

React uses a declarative syntax, where developers describe how the UI should look based on the current state, and React takes care of efficiently updating the DOM to match that state.
Component-Based Architecture:

React encourages the creation of modular and reusable components. Each component represents a part of the user interface and is designed to react independently to changes in data.
Virtual DOM:

React uses a Virtual DOM to efficiently update the actual DOM. When data changes, React creates a virtual representation of the DOM, compares it with the previous version, and then updates only the necessary parts of the actual DOM. This approach minimizes DOM manipulation and improves performance.
One-Way Data Binding:

React follows a one-way data flow, where data flows in a single direction—from parent components to child components. This unidirectional data flow facilitates a predictable and easily maintainable system, allowing React components to react to changes in data.
In summary, React is named for its focus on reactive programming principles, providing a powerful and efficient way to build dynamic and responsive user interfaces. The library's design encourages developers to think in terms of how the UI should react to changes in data, promoting a clear and maintainable code structure.



5. What is crossorigin in script tag?

The crossorigin attribute in the <script> tag is used to control how the browser handles loading and executing scripts that are loaded from external domains (i.e., from a different origin). This attribute is particularly relevant when dealing with scripts loaded from a different domain or a content delivery network (CDN). The crossorigin attribute can take the following values:

Anonymous (default):

If the crossorigin attribute is not specified or set to "anonymous," the browser fetches the script without including any credentials (such as cookies) in the request. This is the default behavior for cross-origin scripts.
html
Copy code
<script src="https://example.com/script.js" crossorigin="anonymous"></script>
Use Credentials:

If the crossorigin attribute is set to "use-credentials," the browser includes credentials (such as cookies) with the request when fetching the script. This is useful when the server requires authentication for access to the script.
html
Copy code
<script src="https://example.com/script.js" crossorigin="use-credentials"></script>
The crossorigin attribute is primarily associated with the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) mechanism, which is a security feature implemented by web browsers to restrict web pages from making requests to a different domain than the one that served the web page. When loading scripts from a different origin, the browser enforces CORS policies to ensure security.

It's important to set the crossorigin attribute correctly based on the CORS configuration of the server hosting the script. Failing to do so might result in the browser blocking the script execution or raising security-related issues. Always check the documentation of the external server or CDN for any specific CORS requirements.

6. What is diference between React and ReactDOM?

React and ReactDOM are two separate packages in the React ecosystem, each serving a distinct purpose:

React:

The react package is the core library for building user interfaces with React. It provides the fundamental features of React, including components, state management, the virtual DOM, and the mechanism for rendering and updating the user interface. When you write React code, you import and use elements and features from the react package.
jsx
Copy code
import React from 'react';

class MyComponent extends React.Component {
  // Component code goes here
}
ReactDOM:

The react-dom package is responsible for rendering React components in the browser. It provides methods to interact with the actual DOM, such as rendering React components into a DOM element, updating components, and handling events. In other words, react-dom bridges the gap between React's virtual DOM and the real browser DOM.
jsx
Copy code
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';

// Render a React component into a DOM element with ID 'root'
ReactDOM.render(<MyComponent />, document.getElementById('root'));
In summary:

React is the core library for building user interfaces with React components. It focuses on the abstract representation of UI components, state management, and the virtual DOM.

ReactDOM is a separate package that interacts with the actual DOM, handling tasks related to rendering React components in the browser. It is specific to web environments and provides methods for working with the DOM.

Typically, when building a web application with React, you'll use both react and react-dom together. Other platforms, such as React Native for mobile development, have their own counterparts (e.g., react-native), but the core react package remains consistent across different platforms.



7. What is difference between react.development.js and react.production.js files via CDN?

The primary difference between react.development.js and react.production.js files is the level of optimization and additional development tools included in each version. These files are provided by React and can be included via CDN (Content Delivery Network) when building React applications.

Development Version (react.development.js):

This version is intended for use during the development phase of your application.
It includes additional warnings, error messages, and debugging information in the console, which can be helpful for identifying issues during development.
It is larger in file size compared to the production version, as it contains additional code and comments for development tools.
The development version is not optimized for performance but provides a better development experience.
html
Copy code
<!-- Development version -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react@17/umd/react.development.js"></script>
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react-dom@17/umd/react-dom.development.js"></script>
Production Version (react.production.js):

This version is optimized for production use and is suitable for deployment.
It removes unnecessary warnings, debug information, and development-specific code to reduce file size.
The production version is smaller in file size, resulting in faster downloads and improved application performance in the browser.
html
Copy code
<!-- Production version -->
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react@17/umd/react.production.min.js"></script>
<script src="https://unpkg.com/react-dom@17/umd/react-dom.production.min.js"></script>
When deploying a React application to production, it's recommended to use the production version of the React libraries to ensure better performance and a smaller bundle size. During development, the development version is often used to take advantage of the additional debugging information and helpful warnings.

The specific URLs and file names may vary based on the React version you are using, so it's a good practice to check the official React documentation or the CDN provider for the latest links.



8. What is async and defer?

async and defer are attributes used with the <script> element in HTML to control the loading and execution of external JavaScript files. These attributes influence when the browser fetches and processes the script, and they are particularly useful when dealing with scripts that are not essential for the initial rendering of the web page.

async:

When the async attribute is present in the <script> tag, it indicates that the script should be executed asynchronously. This means that the script will be fetched in the background while the HTML parsing continues, and the script will be executed as soon as it is downloaded, without waiting for other scripts or the HTML document to finish loading.
html
Copy code
<script async src="example.js"></script>
Use async when the script doesn't depend on other scripts or the order of execution is not critical. Keep in mind that the order of execution may not be guaranteed with async.
defer:

The defer attribute, on the other hand, indicates that the script should be executed after the HTML document has been fully parsed. Multiple scripts with the defer attribute will be executed in the order they appear in the document.
html
Copy code
<script defer src="example.js"></script>
Use defer when the script relies on the order of execution or needs access to the fully parsed DOM. Unlike async, scripts with defer are guaranteed to be executed in order.
Usage guidelines:

Use async when the script can be executed independently and doesn't rely on other scripts or the DOM.
Use defer when the script relies on the order of execution or needs access to the fully parsed DOM.
If a script is both async and defer, the async attribute takes precedence.
It's worth noting that both async and defer are used for external scripts and do not affect inline scripts (scripts written directly within the HTML document). When in doubt, consider the dependencies and the desired timing for script execution when choosing between async and defer.






















